* What is ECA (Embedded Connectivity Appliance)?

ECA is a platform for building network appliances. ECA is not a product itself
but it can be used to create networking devices. ECA is also a platform for
prototyping various networking technologies, like use of Bluetooth low
energy devices in IP networks.

ECA is Yocto based layer that ties together various open source
connectivity components like ConnMan for connection management,
oFono for cellular access, BlueZ for Bluetooth connectivity and
neard for NFC support.

As an example, a tethering network appliance (mobile access point) is built
using ECA. This tethering application can provide Wifi AP that various devices
can use to connect to internet via ECA.


* What do you mean by tethering in this context?

Tethering means that ECA provides network access point that clients can use
it to connect to internet. ECA can tether wifi, bluetooth and ethernet networks.
These technologies can be tethered all at the same time.


* What is Wifi tethering?

In Wifi tethering, ECA creates a Wifi access point using a configured
name (SSID) and passphrase. The created AP uses WPA security. The internet
access is typically provided by ethernet interface.


* What is Bluetooth tethering?

In Bluetooth tethering, ECA creates a PAN network and Bluetooth clients can
connect to it. Internet access can be provided by ethernet, cellular or wifi.


* What is ethernet tethering?

Ethernet tethering means that client is connected to ECA via ethernet cable.
ECA runs a DHCP server, and provides an IP address to the client. The internet
access is typically provided either by wifi or cellular network.
Note that ECA device that is configured to use ethernet tethering MUST not be
connected to network that has other dhcp servers running, like corporate network
or your home network. The corporate or home network might get confused if
there are multiple DHCP servers running and providing IP addresses.


* What hardware platform does it run?

ECA is created using Yocto (see https://www.yoctoproject.org/ for details),
so in theory it can run in all the devices that are supported by Yocto.
In practice there are some restrictions, like available RAM, CPU speed etc.
It is also important to have enough connectors for networking devices that
are typically connected via USB, like usb wifi or cellular dongles.

ECA has been successfully running in the following devices:
- Intel NUC
- Beagleboard
- RaspberryPi
- Intel Atom PC
- Intel FRI2 (Fish River Island 2)
- Beaglebone
- VirtualBox image


* What wifi USB dongles are supported?

The ECA kernel is compiled with all the wifi devices supported by the kernel.
It is still possible that some wifi hardware is not supported by the ECA.
Even if kernel supports the wifi hardware, it is possible that the wifi dongle
firmware is not available for Linux.


* What Bluetooth USB dongles are supported?

Same issue as in Wifi dongles, your dongle might be supported or not.
Usually the issues are firmware related i.e., the firmware file is missing.


* What cellular USB dongles are supported?

Same issue as in Wifi dongles, your dongle might be supported or not.
Usually the issues are firmware related i.e., the firmware file is missing.
Many cellular USB modems are complicated to configure as they provide
also mass storage mode that contains the Windows setup files. When cellular
modem is inserted, the usb-modeswitch program tries to activate the cellular
chip but sometimes it fails to do so.


* What USB ethernet dongles are supported?

All the kernel supported ethernet dongles should work. If the ethernet dongle
is a new one, it might be that the kernel support is not yet activated.


* Where do I get it?

You can get the meta-eca layer for Yocto from
git://github.com/jukkar/meta-eca.git


* How do I start using the ECA tethering appliance?

See the README file in the meta-eca sources or blog at
http://metaeca.wordpress.com